Dear Sir/Madam, 

I found your ad on http://www.tealit.com. Are you still looking for native-speaker teachers?

For the last four years, I have been working at National United University. But next semester, NUU will be replacing me with an assistant professor. So I am looking for another job. I wish to apply for a position at your school. I think I would be an asset to your English program, teaching either kids or adults.

For the first ten years I was in Taiwan at Chinmin Institute of Technology, I was working with lower-level, unmotivated students. For these students, I developed a number of innovative teaching activities. One involved paired dictation, where partners read a dialog, but at the same time write it down. Another was a multiple choice quiz in the form of a basketball/baseball relay. Members of a team stationed around the room mark a ball with the answers to questions posted on the wall, before throwing it to the team member at the front of the room, who competes to throw the ball into the right basket placed on top of the blackboard before it fills up.

These dictation, relay race and other activities I have developed would work well with kids, I think.

At NUU, the students have been served better by the education system. They are more able learners. Still, they have been trained to be passive. Getting them to use English in small groups is a challenge. I have continued to use dictation, putting it on the web, at http://web.nuu.edu.tw/~greg/DictationExercises.html. The students listen to stories from http://www.storycorps.org, or other Internet sources, and re-create the text by filling in the blanks for homework. Using a question-answering web application I am now developing, they also write questions about the stories and choose answers, and the application tells them if their question is grammatical, and if the answer is correct.

As you can see, I have been developing my own curriculum. I don't use textbooks in class (although I am willing to use one if it is required.) Textbooks have acted as a starting point from which the curriculum has developed. For example, the topics and much of the material of my Business English classes comes from Longman's Market Leader.
 
The problems of most of my students in Taiwan has been a lack of confidence, stress and other forms of discomfort, and a lack of adventurousness. These were the result of unenjoyable experiences in school learning English, the lack of contact with users of the language, and disappointment with their experiments with the language. It would be my aim to give kids enjoyable experiences with English, to allow them to develop a personal relationship with a native speaker and give them wings (or encourage them to fly) with the language, by valuing risk-taking with it. 

Leaving NUU now, I am not retiring and I am not slowing down. With the next step in my career, I want to change the Taiwan English-language situation, developing my teaching repertoire and helping my students grow as learners of English. I am confident the future is bright. If your school is also of such a view, I would enjoy working with you, developing confident, relaxed, adventurous and superior speakers of the English language.

Yours sincerely,


Greg Matheson,
Contract Lecturer,
Language Center
National United University
1, Lienda, Miaoli 36003, Taiwan, R.O.C
(E-mail: drbean@freeshell.org)

                       RESUME

   CONTACT INFORMATION
   Name:        Gregory John Matheson
   Address:     Language Center
                National United University
   	        1, Lienda, Miaoli 36003, Taiwan, R.O.C
   Telephone:   037-381290
   Email:       drbean@freeshell.org, greg@nuu.edu.tw
   Homepage:    http://drbean.freeshell.org

   PERSONAL INFORMATION
   Date of Birth:       January 29, 1949
   Place of Birth:      Sydney, Australia
   Citizenship:         Australian
   Alien Resident Certificate: KC00125148
   Registered Lecturer (JiangShi):  056372
   Sex:                 Male

   SUMMARY STATEMENT
   A dedicated, experienced, effective EFL teacher

   EDUCATION

   Troy State University, Seoul, Korea (Troy, Alabama, USA)
   MS in Educational Leadership
   1993-1995

   University of Western Australia, Perth, Western Australia
   PhD Program. (I did not submit a dissertation and don't have PhD.)
   1970-1972

   University of New South Wales, Sydney, New South Wales
   BA (Psychology)
   1966-1969

   TEACHING EXPERIENCE

   Berlitz & Talk-In, Kansai, Japan
   English Conversation Teacher (1981-1985)

   The Korea Times, Seoul, Korea
   Copy Editor (1986-1996)

   Hyundai, Samsung, Kolon, and others, Seoul, Korea
   Part-time Business English Teacher (1987-1996)

   Soonchunhyang University, Asan, Korea
   Listening, Composition and Conversation (1997-1998)

   Chinmin Institute of Technology, Toufen, Taiwan
   Composition, Conversation, Business English (1999-2008)

   National United University, Miaoli, Taiwan
   Intercultural communication, Pop culture, Media,
   Composition, Conversation, Business English (2008-2012)

   PROFESSIONAL MEMBERSHIPS

   Korea TESOL (1986-1998)
   Seoul Chapter President (1992-1996)
   
   Participation in Tom Farrell's PhD Research (1995)
   A qualitative study on the reflections of 4 EFL teachers in Korea
   Indiana University of Pennsylvania, http://tesl-ej.org/ej14/a1.html

   Korea TESOL Teacher Development & Education SIG
   Co-founder/co-leader (1997-1998) With Barbara Wright

   Taipei Perl Mongers
   Member (2004-to date)
   Open-source perl programmers' organization

   PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS

   Language Skills
   Japanese, Advanced
   Korean, Intermediate
   Chinese, Basic

   Computer Skills
   Perl language, intermediate
   Haskell language, basic
   Linux system administration
   Web programming
   Web, mail server administration

   Natural Language Processing Certificate
   March - May, 2012
   Jurafsky & Manning (Stanford)
   Grade 84.3
   
   Testing Skills
   GRE scores (1992)
   Analytical 710
   Quantitative 780
   Verbal 780

   CONFERENCE PRESENTATIONS

   Korea TESOL National Conference, Fall 1996
   Swapshops (with Troy Ottwell, Andrew Todd)

   First Pan-Asian Conference, Bangkok, Thailand, January 1997
   * Swapshops (with Troy Ottwell, Andrew Todd)
   * Teacher Knowledge

   Pusan KOTESOL Regional Conference, May 1997
   Teaching metaphors

   INTERESTS

   Jogging, 6 kms in 1 hour
   Pushups, 35
   Cycling, Taichung-Toufen, 8 hours, August 2004
